---
id: 07b2b756-dbd5-11ee-9b1d-9b51db307abe
title: "Tiny Logger: minimal blogging"
tags:
  - RSS
date_published: 2024-03-06 10:06:30
---

# Tiny Logger: minimal blogging
#Omnivore

[Read on Omnivore](https://omnivore.app/me/tiny-logger-minimal-blogging-18e148e3cf4)
[Read Original](https://www.tinylogger.com/max/RCtgO270DxE9CJyF)



### [My favorite coffeeshops](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.tinylogger.com&#x2F;max&#x2F;RCtgO270DxE9CJyF)

I love working from coffeeshops; I&#39;m inspired by their beautiful interiors, energized by their delicious drinks, encouraged by the warm and welcoming teams. I&#39;ve worked from hundreds of coffeeshops, and I&#39;d like to tell you about my absolute favorites, in no particular order. If you&#39;re in the area, check one out!**[Huckleberry Roasters](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Huckleberry+Roasters&#x2F;@39.7723707,-105.0438331,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m6!3m5!1s0x876b87cd57dc869d:0x99f479989d51740a!8m2!3d39.7723707!4d-105.0438331!16s%2Fg%2F11jzbj7h9s?entry&#x3D;ttu), Denver, CO**Once called Allegro Coffee, this coffeeshop is now under new management and has a new name, but continues to serve delicious drinks from one of my favorite coffeeshop interiors ever. I found Allegro&#x2F;Huckleberry shortly after I moved to the Denver area, and I remember feeling calm and inspired by the wonderfully tall, spacious, sunlit space. I spent many lovely afternoons dreaming about the future and working on personal projects here, and I still come by whenever I&#39;m in the area.**[OZO Coffee | East Pearl](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;OZO+Coffee+%7C+East+Pearl&#x2F;@40.0190869,-105.2753813,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0x571e0e4d69035417?sa&#x3D;X&amp;ved&#x3D;2ahUKEwiPr42Z5cGEAxWnAHkGHYGQDv4Q%5FBJ6BAgQEAA), Boulder, CO**OZO is a small Boulder-area chain of excellent coffeeshops. But this particular OZO, with its excellent tea and coffee drinks, as well as baked goods, along with a hidden back room, was my go-to for the most thoughtful work I needed to do and catchups with closest friends.**[Tradition Coffee Roasters](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Tradition+Coffee+Roasters&#x2F;@21.3973741,-157.769536,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0xc50ce97558fcd4f2?sa&#x3D;X&amp;ved&#x3D;2ahUKEwi1n4aa5sGEAxUsD1kFHdhMAVsQ%5FBJ6BAgQEAA), Kailua, HI**For years, I drank fancy coffee without understanding what exactly I was drinking. Tradition changed that. Founded by a husband-and-wife team – an FDNY firefighter of 20 years and Big Bank trader – who reinvented themselves in Hawaii, Tradition roasts beans from all over the world on site and serves excellent pour-overs. In a more unique move, they also aim to educate the community on how coffee is sourced and produced through their wonderful [coffee tasting tours](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.airbnb.com&#x2F;experiences&#x2F;3871457). Tradition is a relatively young coffeeshop, and their hospitality and enthusiasm for good coffee and great service is apparent through everything they do. Add a large, airy indoor-outdoor space with an art gallery upstairs, and you&#39;ve got the recipe for one of my favorite coffeeshops ever.**[Odyssey Coffee](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Odyssey+Coffee&#x2F;@40.2119042,-74.007014,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0xed82f50ffc203be5?sa&#x3D;X&amp;ved&#x3D;2ahUKEwiiz9nmq8mEAxUdCnkGHQIbDhMQ%5FBJ6BAgREAA), Ocean Grove, NJ**Odyssey was one of many highly-rated spots on the Jersey Shore when I stopped by a few years ago. When I signed onto the wifi, a popup asked for my email; normally I&#39;d roll my eyes and give them no@no.com, but a heartfelt message from the owner, Joey, a classics professor, welcomed me to the Odyssey community. Providing my actual email added me to a respectful and thoughtful email list, and the confirmation screen told me a little about the intentional community space, a &quot;vigorous refuge for thinkers&quot;, [Joey](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.odysseycoffee.net&#x2F;about-joey) set out to build in his hometown in addition to a career teaching classics. Odyssey is an absolutely lovely, cozy space just blocks from the beach, and they serve excellent coffee and locally-baked goods, and sandwiches. And more than any other coffeeshop on this list, other than maybe Huckleberry, it inspires deep thinking. The vibe at Odyssey is laid-back Northeast maritime elegance and going there is a little pilgrimage from New York. I try to make the 1.5-hour drive at least two or three times a year to think through big questions. For the last two years, I&#39;ve gone there the day before my birthday. Whether birds are signing in the sunlight or the outside is windy and covered with snowbanks, inside truly is a refuge from the everyday.**[Offset Coffee Roasters](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Offset+Coffee+Roasters&#x2F;@33.803641,-118.32762,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0xb41bc603cf3d6828?sa&#x3D;X&amp;ved&#x3D;2ahUKEwjHl4nt9NiEAxUqF1kFHeb8C-cQ%5FBJ6BAgQEAA), Torrance (Los Angeles), CA**I found Offset during one of my first visits to LA. For a long time, I&#39;d order the same drink at every shop: a latte. Offset floored me with the best latte I&#39;ve ever had in my life. When I asked what made it so good, they told me they use a different roast every week and that week&#39;s must have been exceptionally good. At the time, I didn&#39;t know beans could make such a difference, or that espresso often used different beans than drip coffee. Offset was the first place that showed me how incredibly good coffee could be, and the fact that they&#39;re a tiny, beautiful space with a friendly team doesn&#39;t hurt. I try to come back everytime I&#39;m in LA, and they always remind me what great coffee tastes like.**[Wonder Room](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Wonder+Room&#x2F;@40.6283995,-74.0317879,17z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x89c245879c29b601:0x921c5163b1c937eb!8m2!3d40.6283995!4d-74.029213!16s%2Fg%2F11swm820l6?entry&#x3D;ttu), Brooklyn, NY**I&#39;ve [written about Wonder Room before](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.tinylogger.com&#x2F;max&#x2F;vkdtLMceinVqe9lp), though I didn&#39;t name them in the time: &quot;There&#39;s a new coffee shop in South Brooklyn. The coffee is good; 7&#x2F;10 stars. But the ambiance and creativity are phenomenal. They have an in-house flower shop. They have an inventive Alice-in-Wonderland&#x2F;[organic bohemian](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.houzz.com&#x2F;photos&#x2F;my-houzz-bohemian-home-inspired-by-organic-1970s-design-eclectic-living-room-seattle-phvw-vp~34119948) style. They have a young, enthusiastic team that&#39;s always trying something new. And, as I write this, they have a bubble machine cheering up the rainy street. I&#39;ve chatted with the owners, because they&#39;re always out front scheming something imaginative, and this small husband-and-wife-and-friends team has created an authentic vibe, an identity, a unique space, around coffee and flowers and community.&quot; Years later, Wonder Room continues to flourish, and stopping by is always a treat for the senses.**[Shepherd&#39;s Cup](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Shepherd), Brooklyn, NY**Shepherd&#39;s Cup is another South Brooklyn gem. Operating from a large, cozy, mediterranean-inspired interior, this lovely shop has the friendliest team and serves delicious food in addition to very good drinks. It seems to be a Christian gathering space ( someone said they&#39;re [Mennonites](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.reddit.com&#x2F;r&#x2F;food&#x2F;comments&#x2F;1aqamev&#x2F;i%5Fate%5Fdollar%5Fny%5Fcheese%5Fpizza&#x2F;kqc6jri&#x2F;)? ) and there&#39;s definitely _literature_ on the shelves. But the space is always welcoming, and the coffee and tea are always beautifully presented. Other than the lack of outlets, it&#39;s a wonderful place to work or catch up.**[IGAM](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;IGAM+COFFEE&#x2F;@40.5884859,-73.9867265,17z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x89c2457f9e3d2f57:0x57290849f3eae646!8m2!3d40.5884859!4d-73.9841516!16s%2Fg%2F11lkjm41s2?entry&#x3D;ttu), Brooklyn, NY**After I came back from drinking incredible coffee in California (at places like Offset) I craved a good latte on my home turf. I found it, again and again, at IGAM. The owner is a friendly full-time software developer. The space is small and cozy (their second Ave U location is much more accommodating), and the food can be hit-or-miss. But the coffee is always top-notch. After Offset, they routinely make the second best latte I&#39;ve ever had. What is IGAM? You&#39;ll have to ask the owner if you run into him ;)

---

**Honorable Mentions:** **[Banner Coffee](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Banner+Coffee+Company&#x2F;@35.1183399,-120.6119898,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m10!1m2!2m1!1scoffee!3m6!1s0x80ec5fc7d5c36a83:0xe94a347fa4c368be!8m2!3d35.1183399!4d-120.5929344!15sCgZjb2ZmZWVaCCIGY29mZmVlkgELY29mZmVlX3Nob3CaASRDaGREU1VoTk1HOW5TMFZKUTBGblNVTnNPRFo1VG5WblJSQULgAQA!16s%2Fg%2F11jg4l8fl6?entry&#x3D;ttu), Arroyo Grande, CA**Halfway between LA and SF, this place and its team are the embodiment of California Chill. The drinks are delicious and the space is gorgeous.**[Trident Coffee](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;IGAM+COFFEE&#x2F;@40.5884859,-73.9867265,17z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x89c2457f9e3d2f57:0x57290849f3eae646!8m2!3d40.5884859!4d-73.9841516!16s%2Fg%2F11lkjm41s2?entry&#x3D;ttu), Boulder, CO**This coffeeshop and used bookstore has been around for 50 years, and is an absolute Boulder classic. Talk about soul! There&#39;s a great backyard with a fence of doors and a small stage for live performances, and a regular chess club. The drinks differ in quality depending on the day, but you can bet you&#39;ll find locals hanging out, studying, planning their next 14er outing, holding their inaugural Witch Circle, or just catching up.**[Dorado Coffee](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Dorado+Caf%C3%A9&#x2F;@47.4993691,19.0650232,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0x507f8688a7b73b58?sa&#x3D;X&amp;ved&#x3D;1t:2428&amp;ictx&#x3D;111), Budapest, Hungary**This place is run by a pretty rude owner, but the team is lovely and the drinks, pastries, and vibes are immaculate. Don&#39;t bring your laptop, but do bring a book or a friend to catch up with. Do definitely have breakfast at [Grumpy Food Bar](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Grumpy+Food+Bar+Coffee&#x2F;@47.4989546,19.0647796,18.52z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m14!1m7!3m6!1s0x4741dc688a317477:0x507f8688a7b73b58!2sDorado+Caf%C3%A9!8m2!3d47.4993691!4d19.0650232!16s%2Fg%2F11f24x6v0z!3m5!1s0x4741dd9d8f7d41f5:0xb82e129225a85bb7!8m2!3d47.4991848!4d19.0648594!16s%2Fg%2F11j029p6x0?entry&#x3D;ttu) across the street.**[Wonderstate Coffee](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;Wonderstate+Coffee+-+Madison+Cafe&#x2F;@43.0730469,-89.3840094,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0xdcb0cbd02729891a?sa&#x3D;X&amp;ved&#x3D;1t:2428&amp;ictx&#x3D;111), Madison, WI**I&#39;ve only been to Wonderstate twice, but the atmosphere, the classic Scandinavian interior, and the absolutely excellent drinks leave little to be desired.**[City League](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.google.com&#x2F;maps&#x2F;place&#x2F;City+League+Coffee+Roasters&#x2F;@40.6351527,-74.0235514,15z&#x2F;data&#x3D;!4m2!3m1!1s0x0:0x290cbd3bcfb49845?sa&#x3D;X&amp;ved&#x3D;2ahUKEwi05vre69-EAxVxF1kFHRA2DwAQ%5FBJ6BAgbEAA), Brooklyn, NY**City League in Bay Ridge is where I go when I need to get serious work done. There&#39;s ample comfortable seating, and the friendly team makes a phenomenal oat milk latte.