---
id: 7c0f25e3-6e66-40f6-94e5-7ab510674599
title: "Tiny Logger: write calmly"
tags:
  - RSS
date_published: 2024-08-09 16:06:08
---

# Tiny Logger: write calmly
#Omnivore

[Read on Omnivore](https://omnivore.app/me/tiny-logger-write-calmly-191399bf9fe)
[Read Original](https://www.tinylogger.com/max/20DSrgHjrXkgAq5r)



### [Who is Facebook for now?](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.tinylogger.com&#x2F;max&#x2F;20DSrgHjrXkgAq5r)

From 2007 to around 2013, I really loved using Facebook. I loved sharing what I was up to and reading what my friends were up to, I enjoyed posting and seeing vacation photos, and I looked forward to setting up event pages and keeping up with groups. In those good early years, Facebook connected me to people I cared about: first, my friends, then people I wanted to keep in touch with (high school acquaintances or people I met in my travels), and eventually even family members. Not every Facebook friend was a close friend, but the platform still empowered me to maintain connections. Then, the internet evolved, the kids who started Facebook grew up, and investors demanded returns. Around 2015, after years of scandals, most of my friends left Facebook. The rest of us watched the community fade. I never deleted my account to stand up to Big Bad Tech, or to spare my mental health. But over time, there was less and less reason to come back. Facebook&#39;s woes came from a combination of self-inflicted wounds (bad product decisions and gross disregard for user data), but also a changing internet landscape. With a staggering user base - [nearly half](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.cbsnews.com&#x2F;news&#x2F;facebook-users-3-billion-users-zuckerberg&#x2F;) the world&#39;s population has a FB account - the platform tried to evolve to serve everyone. The UI became dumbed down and buggy, and the number of ads skyrocketed. At the same time, Yik Yak (remember Yik Yak?), Twitter, Snapchat, Instagram, and Tik Tok have pulled us away from exhaustive profiles closely tied to our identities, and towards short bits of often-anonymous content. Some girl from Utah did a funny dance, and here are two lions playfighting at a Safari, and here&#39;s a 5-second lesson on how to pick stocks that are fire. Now we share glossy photos and six-second video clips, not long life updates. Ironically, Facebook indirectly contributed to some of these trends. Why would I share personal info with a company that&#39;s just gonna abuse it? But some of it is a natural evolution of the way we use the internet. Content gets optimized for maximum dopamine in the shortest time, and our attention spans shrink. We&#39;re a baby in a pile of sugar. These days, Facebook is a _strange_ place. I log on from time to time, and here is what my timeline is like:

* About 15% of the posts are from the older acquaintances I have who still use Facebook to communicate. Nobody&#39;s posting messages on each other&#39;s wall anymore (why would you say something to someone _in public?_) but people are sharing low-effort content and major life updates. (&quot;I am thrilled to announce that...&quot;)
* About 5% of the posts are the Facebook OG holdouts like me. We post once every year or two, sharing content that others are sharing on Twitter and Instagram. (I realize that IG is owned by Meta, aka &quot;rebranded Facebook&quot;, but for the purposes of the post, that community and product are very different.)
* Pages I follow post a lot of spam. I liked Scrubs in 2008, so now the Scrubs page wishes Sarah Chalke a happy birthday, but also occasionally endorses West Virginia congressmen?
* I see a lot of ads (&quot;sponsored posts&quot;). A _lot_ of ads. I&#39;m used to ads on the internet, even with an ad blocker, Facebook serves an overwhelming amount.
* Probably the weirdest thing I see, and maybe 50% of my timeline, are posts from pages and people _I don&#39;t follow_. These are &quot;recommended posts&quot;. This concept exists on most other social media platforms, but Facebook has completely mangled it. On Instagram, I liked one short cat clip; sure, show me another! But Facebook thinks I want to see updates from (all real pages off my timeline): Utah&#39;s FOX 13 News, Chilliwack BC Hiking Club, Accounting Memes, Medford Public Library, Jamie Lee Curtis, something called &quot;PinkNews&quot;, NBC Olympics &amp; Paralympics, Smithsonian Gardens, Lansing Symphony Orchestra, and Rocka-Buy Records in Oakham, Rutland. (Rutland is in the UK.)

**These recommendations aren&#39;t just annoying, they&#39;re surreal.** I&#39;m guessing these organizations are pulled together from a list of my Facebook likes (most from over a decade ago), as well as locations I&#39;ve visited&#x2F;posted from. But, I have no interest in what Jamie Lee Curtis is doing, or the Medford Public Library, or Rocka-Buy Records. Unlike ads, which are annoying but are at least trying to sell me something, these recommendations feel like a weird, incompetent misuse of my data. If you&#39;re going to mine my personal info to build an addictive product, at least be good at it! Probably 75%-80% of my timeline is filled with ads and these &quot;recommended&quot; posts from people and organizations I&#39;ve never met or interacted with. And since the UI makes it hard to distinguish between ads and recommended posts, the two combine into stream of spam.**So my overwhelming feeling when I log into Facebook these days is: &quot;Who is this for?&quot;** Instagram and TikTok can waste hours of my time with bite-sized entertainment. Twitter is for angry hot takes. LinkedIn is for pretending your life is a non-stop press conference. These platforms have their problems, but at least each has a clear value proposition. I think Facebook grew so big and tried to serve (and then hastily monetize) so many users from so many different places and walks of life that it has now collapsed onto itself. And [Millennial wunderkind Zuck](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;www.yahoo.com&#x2F;entertainment&#x2F;mark-zuckerberg-bragged-most-well-132346262.html) is too busy running Instagram and WhatsApp, crafting the Metaverse, and trying to keep with AI, that I feel like his eldest child gets very little attention these days. Meanwhile, mid-level PMs fight for promotions by shipping incremental updates on an increasing suite of features nobody needs. Facebook is not [the only platform that&#39;s grown too big](https:&#x2F;&#x2F;archive.is&#x2F;LxdY2) and lost sight of its roots, but it&#39;s by far the worst example. Opening Facebook feels like walking into a dying mall. A third of the stores are out of business, there&#39;s a funky new fried dessert stall, someone&#39;s selling off-brand glasses right next to Sunglass Hut, the one store you recognize hasn&#39;t been restocked in months, and the staff at Arby&#39;s all quit this morning, but the happy music jingles on. Why did we come here again?